website/docs/sdk/server_providers/openfeature_javascript.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 41
title: Node.js
description: How to use the OpenFeature Node.js SDK for server-side feature flag evaluation
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import { sdk } from "@site/data/sdk";
import { FeatureTable } from "@site/src/components/doc/featureTable";

# Node.js
[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40openfeature%2Fgo-feature-flag-provider?color=blue&style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider)
![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/d18m/%40openfeature%2Fgo-feature-flag-provider?style=flat-square)

This provider supports both **in-process** and **remote** evaluation modes, offering flexibility for different deployment scenarios.

## Install dependencies

The first things we will do is install the **Open Feature SDK** and the **GO Feature Flag provider**.

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">

```shell
yarn add @openfeature/server-sdk @openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="npm" label="npm">

```shell
npm i @openfeature/server-sdk @openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Initialize your Open Feature client

To evaluate the flags you need to have an Open Feature configured in your app.
This code block shows you how you can create a client that you can use in your application.

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
const { OpenFeature } = require("@openfeature/server-sdk");
const { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } = require("@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider");

// Initialize the provider
const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/', // DNS of your instance of relay proxy
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
});

// Register the provider
OpenFeature.setProvider(goFeatureFlagProvider);

// Get a client
const featureFlagClient = OpenFeature.getClient('my-app');
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { OpenFeature } from "@openfeature/server-sdk";
import { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } from "@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider";

// Initialize the provider
const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/', // DNS of your instance of relay proxy
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
});

// Register the provider
OpenFeature.setProvider(goFeatureFlagProvider);

// Get a client
const featureFlagClient = OpenFeature.getClient('my-app');
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### In-Process Evaluation

For high-performance scenarios where you want to evaluate flags locally:

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
const { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } = require("@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider");

const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.InProcess,
  flagChangePollingIntervalMs: 30000, // Poll every 30 seconds
});
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } from "@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider";

const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.InProcess,
  flagChangePollingIntervalMs: 30000, // Poll every 30 seconds
});
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuration options

| Option                        | Type               | Default      | Description                                     |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `endpoint`                    | `string`           | **Required** | The endpoint of the GO Feature Flag relay-proxy |
| `evaluationType`              | `EvaluationType`   | `InProcess`  | Evaluation mode: `InProcess` or `Remote`        |
| `timeout`                     | `number`           | `10000`      | HTTP request timeout in milliseconds            |
| `flagChangePollingIntervalMs` | `number`           | `120000`     | Polling interval for configuration changes      |
| `dataFlushInterval`           | `number`           | `120000`     | Data collection flush interval                  |
| `maxPendingEvents`            | `number`           | `10000`      | Maximum pending events before flushing          |
| `disableDataCollection`       | `boolean`          | `false`      | Disable data collection entirely                |
| `apiKey`                      | `string`           | `undefined`  | API key for authentication                      |
| `exporterMetadata`            | `ExporterMetadata` | `undefined`  | Custom metadata for events                      |
| `fetchImplementation`         | `FetchAPI`         | `undefined`  | Custom fetch implementation                     |

### Evaluation types

#### InProcess Evaluation

- **Performance**: Fastest evaluation with local caching
- **Network**: Minimal network calls, only for configuration updates and tracking
- **Use Case**: High-performance applications, real-time evaluation

#### Remote Evaluation

- **Performance**: Network-dependent evaluation
- **Network**: Each evaluation requires a network call, works well with side-cars or in the edge
- **Use Case**: Centralized control

## Evaluate your flag

This code block explains how you can create an `EvaluationContext` and use it to evaluate your flag.

:::note
In this example, we are evaluating a `boolean` flag, but other types are also available.

**Refer to the [Open Feature documentation](https://docs.openfeature.dev/docs/reference/concepts/evaluation-api#basic-evaluation) to know more about it.**
:::

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
// Context of your flag evaluation.
// With GO Feature Flag you MUST have a targetingKey that is a unique identifier of the user.
const userContext = {
  targetingKey: '1d1b9238-2591-4a47-94cf-d2bc080892f1', // user unique identifier (mandatory)
  firstname: 'john',
  lastname: 'doe',
  email: 'john.doe@gofeatureflag.org',
  admin: true, // this field is used in the targeting rule of the flag "flag-only-for-admin"
  // ...
};

const adminFlag = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('flag-only-for-admin', false, userContext);
if (adminFlag) {
   // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is true for the user
} else {
  // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is false for the user
}
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { EvaluationContext } from "@openfeature/server-sdk";

// Context of your flag evaluation.
// With GO Feature Flag you MUST have a targetingKey that is a unique identifier of the user.
const userContext: EvaluationContext = {
  targetingKey: '1d1b9238-2591-4a47-94cf-d2bc080892f1', // user unique identifier
  firstname: 'john',
  lastname: 'doe',
  email: 'john.doe@gofeatureflag.org',
  admin: true, // this field is used in the targeting rule of the flag "flag-only-for-admin"
  // ...
};

const adminFlag = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('flag-only-for-admin', false, userContext);
if (adminFlag) {
  // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is true for the user
} else {
  // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is false for the user
}
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Advanced usage

### Custom context and targeting

```typescript
const context = {
  targetingKey: 'user-123',
  email: 'john.doe@example.com',
  firstname: 'John',
  lastname: 'Doe',
  anonymous: false,
  professional: true,
  rate: 3.14,
  age: 30,
  company_info: {
    name: 'my_company',
    size: 120,
  },
  labels: ['pro', 'beta'],
};

const flagValue = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('my-feature-flag', false, context);
```

### Data collection and analytics

The provider automatically collects evaluation data. You can customize this behavior:

```typescript
const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
  disableDataCollection: false, // Enable data collection
  dataFlushInterval: 20000, // Flush every 20 seconds
  maxPendingEvents: 5000, // Max 5000 pending events
});
```

### Custom exporter metadata

Add custom metadata to your evaluation events:

```typescript
import { ExporterMetadata } from '@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider';

const metadata = new ExporterMetadata()
  .add('environment', 'production')
  .add('version', '1.0.0')
  .add('region', 'us-east-1');

const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
  exporterMetadata: metadata,
});
```

## Flag types supported

The provider supports all OpenFeature flag types:

### Boolean flags

```typescript
const isEnabled = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('feature-flag', false, context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanDetails('feature-flag', false, context);
```

### String flags

```typescript
const message = await featureFlagClient.getStringValue('welcome-message', 'Hello!', context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getStringDetails('welcome-message', 'Hello!', context);
```

### Number flags

```typescript
const percentage = await featureFlagClient.getNumberValue('discount-percentage', 0, context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getNumberDetails('discount-percentage', 0, context);
```

### Object flags

```typescript
const config = await featureFlagClient.getObjectValue('user-config', {}, context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getObjectDetails('user-config', {}, context);
```

## Tracking events

The provider supports custom event tracking:

```typescript
// Track a custom event
featureFlagClient.track('user_action', context, {
  action: 'button_click',
  page: 'homepage',
  timestamp: Date.now(),
});
```

## Features status
<FeatureTable sdk={sdk.find(it => it.key === 'nodejs')} />

## Contribute to the provider
You can find the source of the provider in the [`open-feature/js-sdk-contrib`](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib/tree/main/libs/providers/go-feature-flag) repository.

Commit message:

doc(nodejs provider): Add a mention on how to use server provider with NextJS
Signed-off-by: Thomas Poignant <thomas.poignant@gofeatureflag.org>

website/docs/sdk/server_providers/openfeature_javascript.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 41
title: Node.js
description: How to use the OpenFeature Node.js SDK for server-side feature flag evaluation
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import { sdk } from "@site/data/sdk";
import { FeatureTable } from "@site/src/components/doc/featureTable";

# Node.js
[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40openfeature%2Fgo-feature-flag-provider?color=blue&style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider)
![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/d18m/%40openfeature%2Fgo-feature-flag-provider?style=flat-square)

This provider supports both **in-process** and **remote** evaluation modes, offering flexibility for different deployment scenarios.

## Install dependencies

The first things we will do is install the **Open Feature SDK** and the **GO Feature Flag provider**.

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">

```shell
yarn add @openfeature/server-sdk @openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="npm" label="npm">

```shell
npm i @openfeature/server-sdk @openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Initialize your Open Feature client

To evaluate the flags you need to have an Open Feature configured in your app.
This code block shows you how you can create a client that you can use in your application.

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
const { OpenFeature } = require("@openfeature/server-sdk");
const { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } = require("@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider");

// Initialize the provider
const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/', // DNS of your instance of relay proxy
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
});

// Register the provider
OpenFeature.setProvider(goFeatureFlagProvider);

// Get a client
const featureFlagClient = OpenFeature.getClient('my-app');
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { OpenFeature } from "@openfeature/server-sdk";
import { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } from "@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider";

// Initialize the provider
const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/', // DNS of your instance of relay proxy
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
});

// Register the provider
OpenFeature.setProvider(goFeatureFlagProvider);

// Get a client
const featureFlagClient = OpenFeature.getClient('my-app');
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### In-Process Evaluation

For high-performance scenarios where you want to evaluate flags locally:

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
const { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } = require("@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider");

const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.InProcess,
  flagChangePollingIntervalMs: 30000, // Poll every 30 seconds
});
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { GoFeatureFlagProvider, EvaluationType } from "@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider";

const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.InProcess,
  flagChangePollingIntervalMs: 30000, // Poll every 30 seconds
});
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuration options

| Option                        | Type               | Default      | Description                                     |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `endpoint`                    | `string`           | **Required** | The endpoint of the GO Feature Flag relay-proxy |
| `evaluationType`              | `EvaluationType`   | `InProcess`  | Evaluation mode: `InProcess` or `Remote`        |
| `timeout`                     | `number`           | `10000`      | HTTP request timeout in milliseconds            |
| `flagChangePollingIntervalMs` | `number`           | `120000`     | Polling interval for configuration changes      |
| `dataFlushInterval`           | `number`           | `120000`     | Data collection flush interval                  |
| `maxPendingEvents`            | `number`           | `10000`      | Maximum pending events before flushing          |
| `disableDataCollection`       | `boolean`          | `false`      | Disable data collection entirely                |
| `apiKey`                      | `string`           | `undefined`  | API key for authentication                      |
| `exporterMetadata`            | `ExporterMetadata` | `undefined`  | Custom metadata for events                      |
| `fetchImplementation`         | `FetchAPI`         | `undefined`  | Custom fetch implementation                     |

### Evaluation types

#### InProcess Evaluation

- **Performance**: Fastest evaluation with local caching
- **Network**: Minimal network calls, only for configuration updates and tracking
- **Use Case**: High-performance applications, real-time evaluation

#### Remote Evaluation

- **Performance**: Network-dependent evaluation
- **Network**: Each evaluation requires a network call, works well with side-cars or in the edge
- **Use Case**: Centralized control

## Evaluate your flag

This code block explains how you can create an `EvaluationContext` and use it to evaluate your flag.

:::note
In this example, we are evaluating a `boolean` flag, but other types are also available.

**Refer to the [Open Feature documentation](https://docs.openfeature.dev/docs/reference/concepts/evaluation-api#basic-evaluation) to know more about it.**
:::

<Tabs groupId="code">
  <TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
// Context of your flag evaluation.
// With GO Feature Flag you MUST have a targetingKey that is a unique identifier of the user.
const userContext = {
  targetingKey: '1d1b9238-2591-4a47-94cf-d2bc080892f1', // user unique identifier (mandatory)
  firstname: 'john',
  lastname: 'doe',
  email: 'john.doe@gofeatureflag.org',
  admin: true, // this field is used in the targeting rule of the flag "flag-only-for-admin"
  // ...
};

const adminFlag = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('flag-only-for-admin', false, userContext);
if (adminFlag) {
   // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is true for the user
} else {
  // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is false for the user
}
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { EvaluationContext } from "@openfeature/server-sdk";

// Context of your flag evaluation.
// With GO Feature Flag you MUST have a targetingKey that is a unique identifier of the user.
const userContext: EvaluationContext = {
  targetingKey: '1d1b9238-2591-4a47-94cf-d2bc080892f1', // user unique identifier
  firstname: 'john',
  lastname: 'doe',
  email: 'john.doe@gofeatureflag.org',
  admin: true, // this field is used in the targeting rule of the flag "flag-only-for-admin"
  // ...
};

const adminFlag = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('flag-only-for-admin', false, userContext);
if (adminFlag) {
  // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is true for the user
} else {
  // flag "flag-only-for-admin" is false for the user
}
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Advanced usage

### Custom context and targeting

```typescript
const context = {
  targetingKey: 'user-123',
  email: 'john.doe@example.com',
  firstname: 'John',
  lastname: 'Doe',
  anonymous: false,
  professional: true,
  rate: 3.14,
  age: 30,
  company_info: {
    name: 'my_company',
    size: 120,
  },
  labels: ['pro', 'beta'],
};

const flagValue = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('my-feature-flag', false, context);
```

### Data collection and analytics

The provider automatically collects evaluation data. You can customize this behavior:

```typescript
const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
  disableDataCollection: false, // Enable data collection
  dataFlushInterval: 20000, // Flush every 20 seconds
  maxPendingEvents: 5000, // Max 5000 pending events
});
```

### Custom exporter metadata

Add custom metadata to your evaluation events:

```typescript
import { ExporterMetadata } from '@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider';

const metadata = new ExporterMetadata()
  .add('environment', 'production')
  .add('version', '1.0.0')
  .add('region', 'us-east-1');

const goFeatureFlagProvider = new GoFeatureFlagProvider({
  endpoint: 'http://localhost:1031/',
  evaluationType: EvaluationType.Remote,
  exporterMetadata: metadata,
});
```

## Flag types supported

The provider supports all OpenFeature flag types:

### Boolean flags

```typescript
const isEnabled = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanValue('feature-flag', false, context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getBooleanDetails('feature-flag', false, context);
```

### String flags

```typescript
const message = await featureFlagClient.getStringValue('welcome-message', 'Hello!', context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getStringDetails('welcome-message', 'Hello!', context);
```

### Number flags

```typescript
const percentage = await featureFlagClient.getNumberValue('discount-percentage', 0, context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getNumberDetails('discount-percentage', 0, context);
```

### Object flags

```typescript
const config = await featureFlagClient.getObjectValue('user-config', {}, context);
const details = await featureFlagClient.getObjectDetails('user-config', {}, context);
```

## Tracking events

The provider supports custom event tracking:

```typescript
// Track a custom event
featureFlagClient.track('user_action', context, {
  action: 'button_click',
  page: 'homepage',
  timestamp: Date.now(),
});
```

## NextJS integration

:::warning
If you're using NextJS with in-process evaluation mode, you might encounter issues loading the WASM binary.
:::

In the server side, you might have an error like this _(only if you are using the in-process evaluation mode)_:

```
WasmNotLoadedException: Failed to load WASM binary: WASM file not found
```

Because of the specificity of **NextJS**, you need to add the following code to your `next.config.ts` file:

```typescript
const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  // ...
  serverExternalPackages: ["@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider"],
  // ...
};
```

This will tell NextJS to use the `@openfeature/go-feature-flag-provider` package as an external package and not to bundle it with the application, which is the best way to avoid the WASM binary not found error.

## Features status

<FeatureTable sdk={sdk.find(it => it.key === 'nodejs')} />

## Contribute to the provider
You can find the source of the provider in the [`open-feature/js-sdk-contrib`](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib/tree/main/libs/providers/go-feature-flag) repository.
